---
title: "Machine"
date: 2022-10-07T00:12:19-05:00
---
Recently I’ve been thinking a lot about what would constitute my ideal
computer, given the kind of work that I do on a daily basis, and thought I’d
try to write down some of my thoughts.

First, a bit about what my use case is. About the heaviest thing I do on a
daily basis is accessing social media, which I can easily do only on my phone.
The rest of my everyday computer use consists of programming, editing plain
text and playing music while I do those things. None of these are particularly
heavy, and it’s for this reason that my 2006 T60, weak even by the standards of
its proper time, generally suffices for when I travel. But I still have 2 big
problems with that computer compared to the more modern one I was using until
it broke: the battery life (atrocious even after a battery replacement) and the
size (unwieldy to fit in my backpack). Of course I think there are also some
clear benefits, but the merits of old thinkpads have been talked to death
online.

Another feature I would want in my dream machine that I’m honestly surprised at
the lack of in modern laptops is data connectivity. It would be amazing to be
able to be somewhere without wifi but where I can still talk to a cell tower
and be able to use a real computer, unconstrained by a tiny touch screen-only
device. There are many laptops out there with LTE connectivity but in my
searching they seem mostly geared toward Business Users™ so they cost $$$.

Lastly I think it barely needs saying but I would need it to be able to run
Linux (sorry BSDfriends, I’ve loved tinkering with FreeBSD but I can’t make the
switch). Until recently I wouldn’t have thought this needed to be said since
the last time I had problems installing Linux on a laptop was circa 2011, but
just recently I found that the completely normal low end modern laptop I had
purchased had a networking card that was incompatible with Linux. Also, I’ve
seen a lot of chromebooks that fit characteristics I want but to my knowledge
Linux support there is still spotty at best (surprised nothing has improved
since I last looked into this in high school honestly).

So to summarize if there are any hardware manufacturers out there who want to
make a laptop that’s

- low spec
- low power consumption
- small
- upgradable/repairable
- LTE connected

I’ll give you my firstborn child and shill for you forever online. Also just
for extra fun points make it use ARM. Or even better RISC-V lol.
